# Social Welfare Statistical Analysis

Social welfare, or the assistance of disadvantaged groups, should matter to all: for the last 40 years, income inequality within nations has contributed to an increasingly greater share of global inequality (1). Federal welfare programs, then, are a topic of great interest. Therefore, using data from a 2017 international social survey by GESIS (2), this project seeks to statistically characterize the relationship between various demographics and attitudes—on such things as trustworthiness of people, life satisfaction, and health status—and attitude towards social welfare. We hope that understanding which factors and beliefs influence people’s responses towards the social distribution of resources—national and worldwide—can ultimately provide insight in how people may be made more reactive to this issue.

# Summary & Conclusion

In conclusion, we employed various statistical tests and visualizing techniques to understand relationships between various demographics and beliefs, ultimately to create a regression model for attitude towards social welfare. We calculated correlations between our seven continuous variables and followed up with correlation tests between ‘health’ and ‘satisfied’ as well as between ‘PARTY_LR’ and ‘SWS’; both of these correlations were confirmed as statistically significant. We then established two statistically significant relationships between our two categorical variables – ‘policeFrF’ and ‘country’ – and composite social welfare score via bootstrapping and a permutation test (for the former) and ANOVA and Tukey confidence intervals (for the latter). We finally fit a multiple regression model for SWS using best subsets regression, and by both parameters of highest adjusted R-squared and lowest BIC value, the model with predictors ‘health’, ‘satisfied’, and ‘PARTY_LR’ proved most suitable. Future research directions could include accounting for possible interaction effects, considering other demographic factors (such as sex or membership in a labor union), and considering other attitudinal factors (such as trust in private companies). These could lend more predictive power to our regression model and a more robust understanding of the factors that shape attitudes towards social welfare. 
